Cast
Main article: List of Star Trek: The Next Generation cast members

Patrick Stewart plays Captain Picard
Main
Patrick Stewart as Captain Jean-Luc Picard is the commanding officer of the USS Enterprise-D. Stewart also played the character in the pilot episode of Deep Space Nine, all four TNG theater films, and in the eponymously titled latest series Star Trek: Picard.
Jonathan Frakes as Commander William Riker is the ship's first officer. The Riker character was influenced by concepts for first officer Willard Decker in the Star Trek: Phase II television series.[11] Decker's romantic history with helmsman Ilia was mirrored in The Next Generation in the relationship between Riker and Deanna Troi.[11] Riker also appears in an episode each of Star Trek: Voyager and Star Trek: Enterprise, and later reprised the role in the first season of Star Trek: Picard. In addition to William Riker, Frakes played William's transporter-created double, Thomas, in one episode each of The Next Generation and Star Trek: Deep Space Nine.
LeVar Burton as Geordi La Forge was initially the ship's helmsman, but the character became chief engineer beginning in the second season. Burton also played the character in an episode of Voyager.
Denise Crosby as Tasha Yar is the chief of security and tactical officer. Crosby left the series at the end of the first season, and the Yar character was killed. Yar returns in alternate timelines in the award-winning episode "Yesterday's Enterprise" and the series finale, "All Good Things...". Crosby also played Commander Sela, Yar's half-Romulan daughter.
Michael Dorn as Worf is a Klingon. Worf initially appears as a junior officer fulfilling several roles on the bridge. When Denise Crosby left at the end of the first season, the Worf character succeeded Lieutenant Yar as the ship's chief of security and tactical officer. Dorn reprised the role as a regular in seasons four through seven of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine and also played another Klingon, also named Worf, in Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country; with 282 on-screen appearances, Dorn has the most appearances of any actor in the Star Trek franchise.[52]
Gates McFadden as Doctor Beverly Crusher (Seasons 1, 3–7) is the Enterprise's chief medical officer. As a fully certified bridge officer, Dr. Crusher had the ability to command the Enterprise if circumstances required her to do so. She also, on occasion, commanded night-watch shifts on the ship's main bridge to stay on top of starship operations. McFadden was fired after the first season, but was rehired for the third season[53] and remained for the remainder of the series.
Diana Muldaur as Doctor Katherine Pulaski (Season 2) was created to replace Dr. Crusher for the show's second season. Muldaur, who previously appeared in two episodes of the original Star Trek, never received billing in the opening credits; instead, she was listed as a special guest star during the first act.
Marina Sirtis as Commander Deanna Troi is the half-human, half-Betazoid ship's counselor. Starting in the season seven episode "Thine Own Self", Counselor Troi, having taken and completed the bridge-officer's test, is later promoted to the rank of commander, which allowed her to take command of the ship, and also perform bridge duties other than those of a ship's counselor. The character's relationship with first officer Riker was a carry-over from character ideas developed for Phase II.[11] Troi also appeared in later episodes of Voyager, in the finale of Enterprise, and in the first season of Picard.
Brent Spiner as Lieutenant Commander Data is an android who serves as second officer and operations officer. Data's "outsider's" perspective on humanity served a similar narrative purpose as Spock's in the original Star Trek.[11] Spiner also played his "brother", Lore, and his creator, Noonien Soong. In Enterprise, Spiner played Noonien's ancestor, Arik, and contributed a brief voiceover (heard over the Enterprise-D's intercom) in the Enterprise finale. In 2020, Spiner reprised the role of Data, as well as Dr. Altan Inigo Soong, Noonien's prodigy, in Picard.
Wil Wheaton as Beverly Crusher's son Wesley. He becomes an acting ensign, and later receives a field commission to ensign, before attending Starfleet Academy. After being a regular for the first four seasons, Wheaton appeared sporadically as Wesley Crusher for the remainder of the series.
Recurring

Actor John de Lancie plays the role of the mysterious but powerful alien known as Q. Like many actors in the series, he also worked on some of the video games of the period.
Majel Barrett as Lwaxana Troi, Federation ambassador and Deanna Troi's mother; also the voice of the ship's computer.
Brian Bonsall as Alexander Rozhenko, Worf's son.
Rosalind Chao as Keiko O'Brien, botanist until her transfer to Deep Space Nine in 2369.
Denise Crosby as Sela, Romulan commander and Tasha Yar's daughter.
John de Lancie as Q, a member of the Q-Continuum who frequently visits the USS Enterprise-D.
Jonathan Del Arco as Hugh, a Borg drone who was disconnected from the collective by Geordi La Forge and Beverly Crusher.
Michelle Forbes as Ro Laren, conn officer until her defection to the Maquis in 2370.
Whoopi Goldberg as Guinan, bartender hostess on the USS Enterprise-D.
Ashley Judd as Robin Lefler, engineering officer on the USS Enterprise-D.
Andreas Katsulas as Tomalak, a Romulan commander who has several encounters with the USS Enterprise-D.
Barbara March as Lursa, Klingon officer from the House of Duras and B'Etor's sister.
Colm Meaney as Miles O'Brien, conn officer and later transporter chief until his transfer to Deep Space Nine in 2369.
Eric Menyuk as The Traveler, a member of a species from Tau Alpha C who mentors Wesley Crusher.
Lycia Naff as Sonya Gomez, engineering officer on the USS Enterprise-D.
Natalia Nogulich as Alynna Nechayev, flag officer in charge of Cardassian affairs.
Robert O'Reilly as Gowron, leader of the Klingon Empire.
Suzie Plakson as K'Ehleyr, Federation ambassador, mate to Worf and Alexander Rozhenko's mother until her death in 2367.
Dwight Schultz as Reginald Barclay, engineering officer until his transfer to Starfleet Communications in 2374.
Carel Struycken as Mr. Homn, Lwaxana Troi's attendant.
Tony Todd as Kurn, Klingon officer and Worf's brother.
Gwynyth Walsh as B'Etor, Klingon officer from the House of Duras and Lursa's sister.
Patti Yasutake as Alyssa Ogawa, medical officer and head nurse.
Ken Thorley as Mot, barber on the USS Enterprise-D.
For a more complete list, see List of Star Trek: The Next Generation cast members#Appearances

Enterprise-D Characters Season 1–7 (examples)
Character	Season 1	Season 2	Season 3	Season 4	Season 5	Season 6	Season 7
Captain Picard	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
William T. Riker	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
Data	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
Worf	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
Deanna Troi	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
Geordi La Forge	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
Beverly Crusher	Yes	No	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes
Katherine Pulaski	No	Yes	No	No	No	No	No
Wesley Crusher	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	2 ep.	No	2 ep.
Tasha Yar	Yes	No	1 ep.	No	No	No	1 ep.
Guinan	No	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	Yes	No
Story arcs and themes
[icon]
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (September 2018)

Brent Spiner (left) stars as the android Data on the show and all four movies, and also plays Data's "father" (e.g. manufacturer) and "brother".
Star Trek had a number of story arcs within the larger story, and oftentimes different episodes contributed to two or more different story or character arcs. Some are epitomized by the aliens the characters interact with, for example, TNG introduced the Borg and the Cardassians. The Klingons and Romulans had been introduced in The Original Series (1966–1969); however, the Klingons were somewhat rebooted with a "turtle-head" look, although a retcon was given to explain this in an Enterprise episode. Other story arcs focus on certain peripheral characters such as Q, Ro Laren or characters projected on the Holodeck.

Certain episodes go deeper into the Klingon alien saga, which are famous for having an actual Klingon language made for them in the Star Trek universe. The Klingon stories usually involve Worf, but not all Worf-centric shows are focused on Klingons. The Duras sisters, a Klingon duo named Lursa and B'Etor, were introduced on TNG in the 1991 episode “Redemption”. They later appeared in the film Generations.

One of the science fiction technologies featured in Star Trek: The Next Generation was an artificial reality machine called the "Holodeck", and several award-winning episodes featured plots centering on the peculiarities of this device.[54] Some episodes focused on malfunctions in the holodeck, and in one case how a crew member became addicted to the environment created by the technology.[54] The dangers of technology that allows illusion is one of ongoing themes of Star Trek going back to the 1st pilot, "The Cage" where aliens' power of illusion to create an artificial reality is explored.[55] One of the plots is whether a character will confront a reality or retreat to a world of fantasy.[56]

Reception
See also: List of awards and nominations received by Star Trek: The Next Generation

Exhibit in Los Angeles featuring the crew quarters of Captain Picard (uniform shown)
The Next Generation's average of 20 million viewers often exceeded both existing syndication successes such as Wheel of Fortune and network hits including Cheers and L.A. Law. Benefiting in part from many stations' decision to air each new episode twice in a week, it consistently ranked in the top ten among hour-long dramas, and networks could not prevent affiliates from preempting their shows with The Next Generation or other dramas that imitated its syndication strategy.[23][18]:124 Star Trek: The Next Generation received 18 Emmy Awards and, in its seventh season, became the first and only syndicated television show to be nominated for the Emmy for Best Dramatic Series. It was nominated for three Hugo Awards and won two. The first-season episode "The Big Goodbye" also won the Peabody Award for excellence in television programming.

In 1997, the episode "The Best of Both Worlds, Part I" was ranked No. 70 on TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of All Time.[57] In 2002, Star Trek: The Next Generation was ranked #46 on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time list,[58] and in 2008, was ranked No. 37 on Empire's list of the 50 greatest television shows.[59]

On October 7, 2006, one of the three original filming models of the USS Enterprise-D used on the show sold at a Christie's auction for US$576,000, making it the highest-selling item at the event.[60] The buyer of the piece was Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, owner of the Museum of Pop Culture in Seattle. The piece is on display within the Science Fiction Museum.

In 2012, Entertainment Weekly listed the show at No. 7 in the "25 Best Cult TV Shows from the Past 25 Years", saying, "The original Star Trek was cult TV before cult TV was even a thing, but its younger, sleeker offspring brought, yes, a new generation into the Trekker fold, and reignited the promise of sci-fi on television."[61] Although TNG did develop a cult following, it was noted for its prime-time general audience viewership also.[5]

The flute from "The Inner Light" was valued at only a few hundred to perhaps US$1,000 when it went to auction, but was sold for over 40,000; in this case the auctioneers admitted they had underestimated the appeal of the prop.[62][63][63] In the days leading up to the auction, Denise Okuda, former Star Trek scenic artist and video supervisor, as well as co-writer of the auction catalog, said: "That's the item people say they really have to have, because it's so iconic to a much-beloved episode."[64]

DS9's "The Emissary", which came out half-way through season 6 of TNG achieved a Nielsen rating of 18.8.[65] Star Trek's ratings went into a steady decline starting with Season 6 of TNG, and the second to last episode of DS9 achieved a Nielsen rating of 3.9.[66]

In 2017, Vulture ranked Star Trek: The Next Generation the second best live-action Star Trek television show.[67]

In 2019, Popular Mechanics ranked Star Trek: The Next Generation the third best science fiction television show ever.[68]

Games

Star Trek TNG pinball featured the voices of actors from the show
Video games based on The Next Generation TV series, movies, and characters include:

Star Trek: The Next Generation (1993) (NES/ Gameboy)
Star Trek: The Next Generation: Future's Past (1993), for the SNES
Star Trek: The Next Generation: Echoes from the Past (1993) a port of Future's Past for the Sega Genesis
Star Trek Generations: Beyond the Nexus (1994), for Nintendo Game Boy or Sega Game Gear
Star Trek: The Next Generation – A Final Unity (1995), for MS-DOS or Macintosh. A Final Unity sold 500,000 copies by 1996.[69]
Star Trek: Borg (1996), includes live action segments directed by James L. Conway and acting by John de Lancie as Q
Star Trek: Klingon (1996), for PC and Mac
Star Trek Generations (1997), for IBM PC
Star Trek: The Next Generation: Klingon Honor Guard (1998), for Mac and Windows 95 and 98
Star Trek: The Game Show (1998), for PC and Mac[70][71]
Star Trek: Hidden Evil (1999), for Windows 95 and 98
Star Trek Invasion (2000), for the PlayStation
Star Trek Armada (2000),[72] for Microsoft Windows 98
Star Trek: Armada II (2001)
Star Trek: Bridge Commander (2002)
Star Trek: Conquest (2007) (Wii, PlayStation 2)
The Enterprise and its setting is also in other Trekiverse games like Star Trek: Armada (2000). For example, in Star Trek: Armada voice actors from The Next Generation returned to their characters in the game including Patrick Stewart reprising the roles of Jean-Luc Picard and Locutus, Michael Dorn voiced Worf, Denise Crosby reprised Sela, and J. G. Hertzler[73] voiced Chancellor Martok. Several other voice actors who had been previously unaffiliated with Star Trek also voiced characters in the game, among them was Richard Penn.[74]

Star Trek: Armada II was set in the Star Trek: The Next Generation era of the Star Trek universe.[72]

Star Trek: Hidden Evil (1999) included voice acting by Brent Spiner as Data and Patrick Stewart as Picard,[75] and was a follow-up to the ninth Star Trek film Star Trek: Insurrection.[75]

Board Games:

Star Trek: The Next Generation Interactive VCR Board Game
This game is played with television with VCR player, and also a game board.[76]
Star Trek: The Next Generation, a 1993 board game[77]
Star Trek: Five-Year Mission (also included TOS)
Pinball:

Star Trek: The Next Generation (pinball)
Films
Main article: Star Trek (film series)

Michael Dorn also had a scene as an ancestor of Worf in Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country. The Worf character would also continue for another 4 seasons on the DS9 spin-off TV show and was in all four TNG films.
Four films feature the characters of the series: Star Trek Generations (1994), Star Trek: First Contact (1996), Star Trek: Insurrection (1998), and Star Trek: Nemesis (2002).

An ancestor of Worf, also played by Dorn, also appeared in Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country.[78]

I think it was kind of an honor they had my character be sort of the link between the two series. It was wonderful to be working with the other cast (from the original Star Trek series). It was kind of a fantasy because who would have thought when I was watching the original show that I'd be working in the movie? Beyond that, it's like professionalism takes over and you just kind of do the best you can and not make yourself look bad.

— Dorn on his role in The Undiscovered Country[78]
Home media
Star Trek harnessed the emergence of home video technologies that rose to prominence in the 1980s as new revenue and promotion avenue.[79] Star Trek: The Next Generation had release in part or in full on VHS, Betamax, LaserDisc, DVD, and Blu-Ray media.[79]

VHS
All episodes of Star Trek: The Next Generation were made available on VHS cassettes, starting in 1991. The entire series was gradually released on VHS over the next few years during the remainder of the show's run and after the show had ended.

The VHS for TNG were available on mail-order, with usually two episodes per VHS cassette.

Beta
Some episodes had releases on the tape videocassette format Betamax.[79] Releases of all Betamax publications including those of the Star Trek: The Next Generation was halted in the early 1990s.[80]

LaserDisc
Paramount published all episodes on the LaserDisc format from October 1991 using an extended release schedule that concluded in May 1999. Each disc featured two episodes with Closed Captions, Digital Audio, and CX encoding. Also published were four themed "collections", or boxed sets, of related episodes. These included The Borg Collective, The Q Continuum, Worf: Return to Grace, and The Captains Collection.[81]

There was a production error with episode 166, "Sub Rosa", where a faulty master tape was used that was missing 4½ minutes of footage. Though a new master copy of the episode was obtained, no corrected pressing of this disc was issued.[81]

Star Trek: The Next Generation was also released on LaserDisc in the non-US markets Japan and Europe. In Japan, all episodes were released in a series of 14 boxed sets (two boxed sets per season), and as with the US releases were in the NTSC format and ordered by production code. The European laserdiscs were released in the PAL format and included the ten two-part telemovies as well as a disc featuring the episodes Yesterday's Enterprise and Cause And Effect. The pilot episode, Encounter At Farpoint, was also included in a boxed set called Star Trek: The Pilots featuring the pilot episodes from Star Trek: The Original Series, Star Trek: The Next Generation, Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, and Star Trek: Voyager.

DVD
The first season of the series was released on DVD in March 2002. Throughout the year the next six seasons were released at various times on DVD, with the seventh season being released in December 2002. To commemorate the 20th anniversary of the series, CBS Home Entertainment and Paramount Home Entertainment released Star Trek: The Next Generation – The Complete Series on October 2, 2007. The DVD box set contains 49 discs. Between March 2006 and September 2008, "Fan Collective" editions were released containing select episodes of The Next Generation (and The Original Series, Deep Space Nine, and Voyager) based on various themes. The individual episodes were chosen by fans voting on StarTrek.com. In total, six "Fan Collectives" were produced, along with a boxed set containing the first five collectives. In April 2013 all seven seasons of Star Trek: The Next Generation were re-released in new packaging featuring a silhouette of a different cast member on each box. However, the discs contained the identical content that was previously released in 2002.

Blu-ray
CBS announced on September 28, 2011, in celebration of the series' twenty-fifth anniversary, that Star Trek: The Next Generation would be completely re-mastered in 1080p high definition from the original 35mm film negatives. The original show was edited and post-processed in standard definition for broadcast, as were all the show's visual effects (e.g. all exterior shots of the Enterprise, phaser fire, or beaming fade-ins and -outs). For the remaster almost 25,000 reels of original film stock were rescanned and reedited, and all visual effects were digitally recomposed from original large-format negatives and newly created CGI shots. The release was accompanied by 7.1 DTS Master Audio. Mike Okuda believes this is the largest film restoration project ever attempted.[82]

An initial disc featuring the episodes "Encounter at Farpoint", "Sins of the Father", and "The Inner Light" was released on January 31, 2012 under the label "The Next Level". The six-disc first season set was released on July 24, 2012.[83] The remaining seasons were released periodically thereafter, culminating in the release of the seventh season on December 2, 2014. Season 1 sold 95,000 units in its launch week in 2012.[84] The Blu-ray sets include many special features and videos, such as a 1988 episode of Reading Rainbow where LeVar Burton (who plays Geordi on TNG) documents the making of a Star Trek: The Next Generation episode.[85]

The entire re-mastered series is available on Blu-ray as individual seasons, and as a 41-disc box set titled The Full Journey. Eventually, all remastered episodes became available for television syndication and digital distribution.[86]

Season	Release date[87]	Special features
Season 1	July 24, 2012	Documentaries "Energized!" (about the VFX remastering) and "Stardate Revisited" (Origin)
Season 2	December 4, 2012	Extended version of "The Measure of a Man", Reunification: reunion interview with entire TNG cast.
Season 3	April 30, 2013	Inside the Writer's Room, Resistance is Futile: Assimilating TNG, A Tribute to Michael Piller
Season 4	July 30, 2013	In Conversation: The Star Trek Art Department, Relativity: The Family Saga of Star Trek TNG, Deleted scenes
Season 5	November 19, 2013	In Conversation: The Music of TNG, Requiem: A Remembrance of TNG, Deleted scenes
Season 6	June 24, 2014	Beyond the Five Year Mission- The Evolution of Star Trek: The Next Generation, Deleted scenes
Season 7	December 2, 2014	The Sky's the Limit – The Eclipse of Star Trek: The Next Generation, In Conversation: Lensing Star Trek: The Next Generation, deleted scenes
Standalone episodes
When TNG was remastered in high definition, several episodes were released as stand-alone single show Blu-ray products.[88] Of the most famous episode pairs "The Best of Both Worlds" is split between two seasons, whereas the standalone product includes parts 1 and 2.[89] "The Best of Both Worlds" single was released in April 2013 coinciding with the release of Season 3.[90] Other singles of TNG HD include the two part shows "Redemption", "Unification", "Chain of Command", and "All Good Things…".[90]

"The Measure of a Man" HD extended cut
Main article: The Measure of a Man (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
"The Measure of a Man" was released in HD in 2012 with an extended cut.[91] The extended version includes an extra 13 minutes of footage as well as recreated special effects.[92] It was released as part of the Season 2 collection set.

Streaming and syndication
Star Trek: The Next Generation is available on various streaming video services including, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, Apple iTunes, and CBS All Access, under various qualities and terms.[90][93] The Netflix version included some additional special effect improvements.[94] One service stated that by 2017 the most re-watched episodes of Star Trek:The Next Generation among the most re-watched Star Trek franchise shows in their offerings, were "The Best of Both Worlds, Part I", "The Best of Both Worlds, Part II", "Q Who", and "Clues".[95] Streaming offerings were noted for binge watching, including Star Trek: The Next Generation 178 episodes among the overall 726 episodes and 12 movies that had been released prior to Star Trek: Discovery in late 2017.[96]

As of the late 2010s, Star Trek: The Next Generation is syndicated to air in the United States on the cable network BBC America and the broadcast subchannel network Heroes & Icons.[97]

Spin-offs and the franchise

Re-creation of the TNG starship bridge for Star Trek: The Exhibition
Star Trek: The Next Generation spawned different media set in its universe, which was primarily the 2370s but set in the same universe as first Star Trek TV shows of the 1960s. This included the aforementioned films, computer games, board games, theme parks, etc. In the 2010s there were rumors of a Captain Worf spin-off, the bridge officer that debuted on TNG and was also featured in the TNG spin-off show Deep Space Nine.[98]

Novels
Star Trek: The Next Generation-era novels (examples):

Series

Star Trek: The Q Continuum by Greg Cox
Q-Space
Q-Zone
Q-Strike
Star Trek: The Lost Era edited by Mario Palmieri
The Sundered by Michael A. Martin
Serpents Among the Ruins by David R. George III
The Art of the Impossible by Keith DeCandido
Well of Souls by Ilsa J. Bick
Deny Thy Father by Jeff Mariotte
Catalyst of Sorrows by Margaret Wander Bonanno
One Constant Star by David R. George III
Star Trek: Typhon Pact
Zero Sum Game by David Mack
Seize the Fire by Michael A. Martin
Rough Beasts of Empire by David R. George III
Paths of Disharmony by Dayton Ward
The Struggle Within by Christopher L. Bennett
Plagues of Night by David R. George III
Raise the Dawn by David R. George III
Brinksmanship by Una McCormack
Star Trek: A Time to...
A Time to Be Born by John Vornholt
A Time to Die by John Vornholt
A Time to Sow by David Ward and Kevin Dilmore
A Time to Harvest by David Ward and Kevin Dilmore
A Time to Love by Robert Greenberger
A Time to Hate by Robert Greenberger
A Time to Kill by David Mack
A Time to Heal by David Mack
A Time for War, a Time for Peace by Keith DeCandido
Star Trek: Titan
Taking Wing by Michael A. Martin and Andy Mangels
The Red King by Michael A. Martin and Andy Mangels
Orion's Hounds by Christopher L. Bennett
Sword of Damocles by Geoffrey Thorne
Over a Torrent Sea by Christopher L. Bennett
Synthesis by James Swallow
Fallen Gods by Michael A. Martin
Absent Enemies by John Jackson Miller
Sight Unseen by James Swallow
Fortune of War by David Mack
One-offs
Balance of Power by Dafydd ab Hugh
The Children of Hamlin by Carmen Carter
Dark Mirror by Diane Duane
Death in Winter by Michael Jan Friedman
The Devil's Heart by Carmen Carter
I, Q by John de Lancie and Peter David
Immortal Coil by Jeffrey Lang
Imzadi by Peter David
The Peacekeepers by Gene DeWeese
Planet X by Michael Jan Friedman
Q-in-Law by Peter David
Rogue by Andy Mangels and Michael A. Martin
Rogue Saucer by John Vornholt
Star Trek: Stargazer by Michael Jan Friedman
Strike Zone by Peter David
Survivors by Jean Lorrah
Vendetta by Peter David
"These Are The Voyages..." (2005)


Jonathan Frakes and Marina Sirtis returned to their The Next Generation roles for the series finale of Enterprise.
In 2005, the last episode of Star Trek: Enterprise called "These Are the Voyages..." (S4E22) featured a holodeck simulation on the USS Enterprise (NCC-1701-D) from Star Trek: The Next Generation during the events of the episode "The Pegasus" and the return of Commander William Riker (Jonathan Frakes) and Counselor Deanna Troi (Marina Sirtis).[99] It was written by Berman and Braga, who noted "... this was a very cool episode because it has a great concept driving it".[100]

Star Trek: Enterprise was the TV show launched following the conclusion of Star Trek: Voyager and was set 100 years before TOS and 200 years before TNG, in addition to including some soft reboot elements with an all new cast. Some episodes connected to TNG directly including guest stars by Brent Spiner and connections to the events in TNG's fictional universe. The three-episode story arc consisting of "Borderland", "Cold Station 12", and "The Augments", with a Soong ancestor portrayed by The Next Generation regular Brent Spiner provides some backstory to Data's origins. Also, the Enterprise episode "Affliction" also helps explain the smooth-headed Klingons that sometimes appeared, a retcon that helped explain this varying presentation between TOS, TNG, and the films.

Star Trek would not return to television as a show for over 12 years, until the debut of Star Trek: Discovery on CBS, but thereafter exclusively available on the internet service CBS All Access (Netflix internationally) at that time. The film franchise was rebooted in 2009, essentially a grafted on fork off of the timeline known in Star Trek: The Next Generation. That movie contains an event from the TNG timeline, which is the destruction of Romulus and the flight of Spock's special ship to the time fork. In the Star Trek franchise, witnessing the events of time shenanigans is a common plot device.

The return of Picard
Main article: Star Trek: Picard
On August 4, 2018, Patrick Stewart stated on social media that he would return to the role of Jean-Luc Picard in a project with CBS All Access.[101]

Stewart wrote, "I will always be very proud to have been a part of Star Trek: The Next Generation, but when we wrapped that final movie in the spring of 2002, I truly felt my time with Star Trek had run its natural course. It is, therefore, an unexpected but delightful surprise to find myself excited and invigorated to be returning to Jean-Luc Picard and to explore new dimensions within him. Seeking out new life for him, when I thought that life was over.

"During these past years, it has been humbling to hear stories about how The Next Generation brought people comfort, saw them through difficult periods in their lives or how the example of Jean-Luc inspired so many to follow in his footsteps, pursuing science, exploration and leadership. I feel I'm ready to return to him for the same reason – to research and experience what comforting and reforming light he might shine on these often very dark times. I look forward to working with our brilliant creative team as we endeavor to bring a fresh, unexpected and pertinent story to life once more."

In January 2019, the producer said that the Picard series will answer questions about what happened to Captain Picard in the 20 years after Star Trek: Nemesis.[102]

Context
This infographic shows the first-run production timeline of various Star Trek franchise shows and films, including Star Trek: The Next Generation